>> Steve Kinney: Gonna move
on to our next experiment.
So there's a bunch of really interesting
sensors for the outside world, right?
Like right now, like we have like I'm
changing a color, I am pressing a button,
I am executing code, right?
But in your kit, there's a whole
bunch of really interesting sensors.
There's a soil moisture sensor,
unfortunately in the room right now we do
not have, like everyone has Johnny-Five
Inventor’s Kit what we did not get for
all of you is a potted plant.
[LAUGH] So we'll actually play with,
there is a weather sensor.
It did,
basically gets a few different things.
It will get the temperature in Celsius and
Fahrenheit.
The relative humidity and
the barometric pressure.
Kind of record all of
those events in real time.
First, I'll show you kind of
what we're gonna wire up and
then we'll switch over to the table,
and we'll kind of get it in place.
This is the first one that we're gonna
use that involves that I2C, which is just
the way of taking a complicated
component and making it a lot simpler.
So what I'm able to do if I go over to
the bme280, it's a very fancy name.
You don't need to now how
ITC works to have fun.
Just know that for getting, it basically
simplifies the fact that we would
like to get all these different
data points from our sensor.
And we'd like to do it with
as STU wires as possible.
[LAUGH] So
this is basically a way to simplify that.
So when we go over, the one thing I wanna
point out cuz I think it is definitely
very, the thing you might not notice
is if you look at the order of wires
on the breadboard, you can see we've
got the ground and then the power.
And then we've got two
going to the GPIO ports.
You'll note it is green and then blue,
but if you look over at the Tessel,
it's black, red, blue, and then green.
So it is one of those very very subtle
things that when you wire it up and
it doesn't work, that should be
the very first thing that you check.
Cuz even us saying it,
it's not necessarily like a given
that you won't just mix those two up.
If you mix them both up on both ends,
actually it works because the color
of the wire doesn't mean anything.
But if you kinda go in the same
order on both sides it won't work.
So it's just something I want to
like draw your attention to, and
we'll actually get this wired up,
all right, great.
Now we're going to wire up this component.
Luckily, it's not terribly difficult.
We'll put this, I'm gonna just kinda
span that channel in the middle.
We're only using components on one side.
So, first, I will go ahead, and
I will take the ground wire.
>> Steve Kinney: I will go and
connect that
>> Steve Kinney: To
the ground, take some power.
>> Steve Kinney: Connected to the power
>> Steve Kinney: Now,
the moment we've all been waiting for,
I'll start with the green.
>> Steve Kinney: Which is going from the,
it's effectively the third
on our bread board, but
it's gonna go to fourth on the Tessel.
Even though I warned
you not to mix them up,
there's still a chance that
I'm going to mix them up,
so it's exciting.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll plug in the,
>> Steve Kinney: Blue
one.
>> Steve Kinney: So
on the Tessle side I've
got black/red green/blue.
I'm sorry, and the bread board side
I've got black/red, green/blue.
On the Tessle side I have, it looks
like I'm actually off by one port.
So which it would just be
slightly different in that case,
black,red, blue and green.
So I should be good, famous last words.